README.adoc, before:

= CloudBees action: Store an object on Amazon S3

Use this action to upload an object file to Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3).
This action also reports artifact-related data to the workflow run for artifact traceability purposes.

== Automatic artifact data reporting

This action link:https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-platform/latest/workflows/artifacts[reports artifact-related data] to the workflow run for artifact traceability purposes.

Do not include the link:https://github.com/cloudbees-io/register-build-artifact[`register-build-artifact` action] for the same artifact version, as the resulting run would register duplicate artifact entries to CloudBees platform.

You must specify `send-artifact-info: true` in order to send artifact data to CloudBees platform.

== Inputs

[cols="2a,1a,1a,3a",options="header"]
.Input details
|===

| Input name
| Data type
| Required?
| Description

| `bucket-name`
| String
| Yes
| The Amazon S3 bucket name.

| `file-path`
| String
| Yes
| The local file path of the object to be uploaded.

| `s3-path`
| String
| Yes
| The Amazon S3 destination path for the upload.

| `artifact-name`
| String
| No
| The name of the artifact to send to CloudBees platform.
Default value is `false`.
Defaults to the filename if not provided.

| `artifact-version`
| String
| No
| The version of the artifact to send to CloudBees platform.
Default value is `false`.
Defaults to `-` if not provided.

| `send-artifact-info`
| Boolean
| No
| If `true`, sends artifact information to CloudBees platform for artifact traceability purposes.
Default value is `false`.
|===

== Outputs

[cols="2a,2a,5a",options="header"]
.Output details
|===

| Output name
| Data type
| Description

| `artifact-id`
| String
| The unique identifier of the artifact reported to CloudBees platform.

|===

== Usage examples

The following is a basic example of using the action:

[source,yaml]
----
      - name: Upload to Amazon S3
        uses: cloudbees-io/s3-upload-object@v1
        with:
          bucket-name: amazon-s3-bucket-name
          file-path: my-local/my-image.tar
          s3-path: my-amazon-s3/s3-image.tar

----

=== Using optional inputs

The following example specifies optional inputs to report artifact data to the workflow run.

[source,yaml,role="default-expanded"]
----
      - name: Upload to Amazon ECR
        uses: cloudbees-io/s3-upload-object@v1
        with:
          bucket-name: my-image.tar
          file-path: /local-path
          s3-path: my-path/to-destination
          artifact-name: my-artifact
          artifact-version: 1.0.0
          send-artifact-info: true
----


=== Full workflow example

The following workflow example:

* Checks out source code from a repository.
* Uses the action to upload a file to Amazon S3.
* Prints the artifact ID of the uploaded file.

[source,yaml,role="default-expanded"]
----

name: s3-upload-file
kind: workflow
apiVersion: automation.cloudbees.io/v1alpha1

on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main
jobs:
  upload-file-job:
    steps:
      - name: checkout-source-code
        uses: cloudbees-io/checkout@v1
      - name: S3 upload file
        id: s3-upload
        uses: cloudbees-io/s3-upload-object@v1
        with:
          bucket-name: my-repo/my-bucket/test.zip
          file-path: ${{ cloudbees.workspace }}/my-files/for-upload.zip
          s3-path: ${{ vars.S3_URL }}
          artifact-name: my-artifact
          artifact-version: 1.0.0
          send-artifact-info: true
      - name: Print output parameter artifact ID from S3 upload action
        uses: docker://alpine:latest
        shell: sh
        run: |
          echo "artifact ID for my-artifact:1.0.0 at my-repo/my-bucket/test.zip is: ${{ steps.s3-upload.outputs.artifact-id }}"

----

== License

This code is made available under the 
link:https://opensource.org/license/mit/[MIT license].

== References

* Learn more about link:https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-platform/latest/actions[using actions in CloudBees workflows].
* Learn about link:https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-platform/latest/[CloudBees platform].

Commit message:

CBP-18214 - Enhance cloudbees-io/s3-upload-object to handle commit details.

README.adoc, after:

= CloudBees action: Store an object on Amazon S3

Use this action to upload an object file to Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3).
This action also reports artifact-related data to the workflow run for artifact traceability purposes.

== Automatic artifact data reporting

This action link:https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-platform/latest/workflows/artifacts[reports artifact-related data] to the workflow run for artifact traceability purposes.

Do not include the link:https://github.com/cloudbees-io/register-build-artifact[`register-build-artifact` action] for the same artifact version, as the resulting run would register duplicate artifact entries to CloudBees platform.

You must specify `send-artifact-info: true` in order to send artifact data to CloudBees platform.

== Inputs

[cols="2a,1a,1a,3a",options="header"]
.Input details
|===

| Input name
| Data type
| Required?
| Description

| `bucket-name`
| String
| Yes
| The Amazon S3 bucket name.

| `file-path`
| String
| Yes
| The local file path of the object to be uploaded.

| `s3-path`
| String
| Yes
| The Amazon S3 destination path for the upload.

| `artifact-name`
| String
| No
| The name of the artifact to send to CloudBees platform.
Default value is `false`.
Defaults to the filename if not provided.

| `artifact-version`
| String
| No
| The version of the artifact to send to CloudBees platform.
Default value is `false`.
Defaults to `-` if not provided.

| `send-artifact-info`
| Boolean
| No
| If `true`, sends artifact information to CloudBees platform for artifact traceability purposes.
Default value is `false`.

| `commit`
| String
| No
| The commit ID from the source repository, used when registering the build artifact in CloudBees platform.
Default is `${{ cloudbees.scm.sha }}`.

| `repository-url`
| String
| No
| The clone URL of the source repository, used when registering the build artifact in CloudBees platform.
Default is `${{ cloudbees.scm.repositoryUrl }}`.

| `ref`
| String
| No
| The ref or branch of the source repository, used when registering the build artifact in CloudBees platform.
Default is `${{ cloudbees.scm.ref }}`.
|===

== Outputs

[cols="2a,2a,5a",options="header"]
.Output details
|===

| Output name
| Data type
| Description

| `artifact-id`
| String
| The unique identifier of the artifact reported to CloudBees platform.

|===

== Usage examples

The following is a basic example of using the action:

[source,yaml]
----
      - name: Upload to Amazon S3
        uses: cloudbees-io/s3-upload-object@v1
        with:
          bucket-name: amazon-s3-bucket-name
          file-path: my-local/my-image.tar
          s3-path: my-amazon-s3/s3-image.tar

----

=== Using optional inputs

The following example specifies optional inputs to report artifact data to the workflow run.

[source,yaml,role="default-expanded"]
----
      - name: Upload to Amazon ECR
        uses: cloudbees-io/s3-upload-object@v1
        with:
          bucket-name: my-image.tar
          file-path: /local-path
          s3-path: my-path/to-destination
          artifact-name: my-artifact
          artifact-version: 1.0.0
          send-artifact-info: true
----


=== Full workflow example

The following workflow example:

* Checks out source code from a repository.
* Uses the action to upload a file to Amazon S3.
* Prints the artifact ID of the uploaded file.

[source,yaml,role="default-expanded"]
----

name: s3-upload-file
kind: workflow
apiVersion: automation.cloudbees.io/v1alpha1

on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main
jobs:
  upload-file-job:
    steps:
      - name: checkout-source-code
        uses: cloudbees-io/checkout@v1
      - name: S3 upload file
        id: s3-upload
        uses: cloudbees-io/s3-upload-object@v1
        with:
          bucket-name: my-repo/my-bucket/test.zip
          file-path: ${{ cloudbees.workspace }}/my-files/for-upload.zip
          s3-path: ${{ vars.S3_URL }}
          artifact-name: my-artifact
          artifact-version: 1.0.0
          send-artifact-info: true
      - name: Print output parameter artifact ID from S3 upload action
        uses: docker://alpine:latest
        shell: sh
        run: |
          echo "artifact ID for my-artifact:1.0.0 at my-repo/my-bucket/test.zip is: ${{ steps.s3-upload.outputs.artifact-id }}"

----

== License

This code is made available under the 
link:https://opensource.org/license/mit/[MIT license].

== References

* Learn more about link:https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-platform/latest/actions[using actions in CloudBees workflows].
* Learn about link:https://docs.cloudbees.com/docs/cloudbees-platform/latest/[CloudBees platform].
